Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996
======================================

CHAPTER I — PRELIMINARY

Section 1. Short title, extent and commencement  
(1) This Act may be called the Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996.  
(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.  
(3) It shall come into force on the 25th day of January, 1996.

Section 2. Definitions  
In this Part, unless the context otherwise requires—  
(a) "arbitration" means any arbitration whether or not administered by a permanent arbitral institution;  
(b) "arbitral award" includes an interim award;  
(c) "arbitral tribunal" means a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators;  
(d) "Court" means the principal civil court of original jurisdiction in a district, and includes the High Court in exercise of its jurisdiction;  
(e) "party" means a party to an arbitration agreement.

CHAPTER II — ARBITRATION AGREEMENT

Section 7. Arbitration agreement  
(1) In this Part, "arbitration agreement" means an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not.  
(2) An arbitration agreement shall be in writing.

CHAPTER III — COMPOSITION OF ARBITRAL TRIBUNAL

Section 10. Number of arbitrators  
(1) The parties are free to determine the number of arbitrators, provided that such number shall not be an even number.  
(2) Failing such determination, the number of arbitrators shall be three.

Section 11. Appointment of arbitrators  
(1) A person of any nationality may be appointed as an arbitrator, unless otherwise agreed by the parties.  
(2) The appointment of an arbitrator shall be made in accordance with the procedure agreed by the parties.

CHAPTER IV — CONDUCT OF ARBITRAL PROCEEDINGS

Section 18. Equal treatment of parties  
The parties shall be treated with equality and each party shall be given a full opportunity to present its case.

Section 19. Determination of rules of procedure  
(1) The arbitral tribunal shall determine the rules of procedure, subject to the provisions of this Part.  
(2) The arbitral tribunal may conduct the proceedings in such manner as it considers appropriate.

CHAPTER V — ARBITRAL AWARD

Section 29. Form and contents of arbitral award  
(1) An arbitral award shall be made in writing and shall be signed by the members of the arbitral tribunal.  
(2) The award shall state the reasons upon which it is based, unless the parties have agreed that no reasons are to be given.

Section 30. Settlement  
If, during the arbitral proceedings, the parties settle their disputes, the arbitral tribunal shall terminate the proceedings and record the settlement in the form of an arbitral award.

CHAPTER VI — RECourse TO COURT

Section 34. Application for setting aside arbitral award  
(1) Any party aggrieved by an arbitral award may make an application for setting aside the award to the Court.  
(2) The Court may set aside the award if it finds that—  
(a) the party was under some incapacity;  
(b) the arbitration agreement is not valid;  
(c) the party was not given proper notice of the appointment of an arbitrator or of the arbitral proceedings.

CHAPTER VII — CONCILIATION

Section 61. Application of Part  
This Part shall apply where the parties agree to submit to conciliation all or certain disputes which have arisen or which may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship.

Section 62. Commencement of conciliation proceedings  
(1) The conciliation proceedings shall commence when a request for conciliation is received by the other party.  
(2) The request shall be in writing.

CHAPTER VIII — MISCELLANEOUS

Section 75. Power of Court to make orders  
The Court shall have the power to make such orders as may be necessary for the purpose of giving effect to the provisions of this Act.

Section 76. Limitation  
The Limitation Act, 1963 (36 of 1963) shall apply to arbitration and conciliation proceedings.

Section 77. Rules  
The Central Government may make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.

Section 78. Repeal and savings  
(1) The Arbitration and Conciliation Ordinance, 1996 is hereby repealed.  
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action taken under the Ordinance shall be deemed to have been done or taken under this Act.