Companies Act, 2013
===================

CHAPTER I — PRELIMINARY

Section 1. Short title, extent, commencement, and application
(1) This Act may be called the Companies Act, 2013.
(2) It extends to the whole of India.
(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Central Government may, by notification in the Official Gazette, appoint.
(4) It shall apply to—
   (a) every company incorporated under this Act or under any previous company law;
   (b) every company registered under this Act or under any previous company law;
   (c) any other company or body corporate incorporated by or under any law for the time being in force.

CHAPTER II — INCORPORATION OF COMPANY AND MATTERS INCIDENTAL THERETO

Section 3. Formation of company
(1) A company may be formed for any lawful purpose by—
   (a) seven or more persons, in the case of a public company;
   (b) two or more persons, in the case of a private company;
   (c) one person, in the case of a one person company.

Section 4. Memorandum
(1) The memorandum of a company shall state—
   (a) the name of the company;
   (b) the state in which the registered office of the company is to be situated;
   (c) the objects for which the company is proposed to be incorporated.

Section 7. Incorporation of company
(1) The Registrar shall, on receiving the documents referred to in section 4 and the prescribed fees, register the company and issue a certificate of incorporation.

CHAPTER III — PROSPECTUS AND ALLOTMENT OF SECURITIES

Section 26. Issue of prospectus
(1) A prospectus shall not be issued unless it is signed by every director or proposed director of the company.

Section 42. Private placement
(1) A company may make a private placement of securities to not more than 200 persons in a financial year.

CHAPTER IV — SHARE CAPITAL AND DEBENTURES

Section 43. Kinds of share capital
(1) The share capital of a company shall be of two kinds, namely—
   (a) equity share capital;
   (b) preference share capital.

Section 62. Further issue of share capital
(1) A company shall, if it proposes to increase its subscribed capital by the issue of further shares, offer those shares to—
   (a) the existing equity shareholders;
   (b) employees under a scheme of employees' stock option.

CHAPTER V — MANAGEMENT AND ADMINISTRATION

Section 73. Prohibition on acceptance of deposits from public
(1) No company shall invite, accept, or renew any deposit from the public.

Section 92. Annual return
(1) Every company shall file with the Registrar an annual return within sixty days from the date of the annual general meeting.

CHAPTER VI — ACCOUNTS OF COMPANIES

Section 128. Books of account to be maintained
(1) Every company shall prepare and keep at its registered office books of account.

Section 134. Financial statement
(1) The financial statement shall give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the company.

CHAPTER VII — AUDIT AND AUDITORS

Section 139. Appointment of auditors
(1) A company shall appoint an individual as an auditor or a firm as auditors at the first annual general meeting.

Section 143. Powers and duties of auditors
(1) The auditor shall have the right of access at all times to the books of account and other relevant records.

CHAPTER IX — COMPROMISE, ARRANGEMENT AND AMALGAMATION

Section 230. Power to compromise or make arrangements with creditors
(1) A company may, if it is unable to pay its debts, compromise with its creditors.

CHAPTER XI — INSPECTION, INQUIRY AND INVESTIGATION

Section 206. Power of Registrar to call for information
(1) The Registrar may call for information or explanation from any company.

CHAPTER XII — Winding Up

Section 270. Modes of winding up
(1) A company may be wound up in any of the following ways—
   (a) by the Tribunal;
   (b) voluntarily.

CHAPTER XIII — TRIBUNAL

Section 420. Appeal to Tribunal
(1) Any person aggrieved by an order of the Registrar may appeal to the Tribunal.

CHAPTER XIV — MISCELLANEOUS

Section 447. Punishment for false statements
(1) If any person makes a statement—
   (a) which is false in any material particular; or
   (b) which he knows to be false, he shall be punishable.

Section 448. Punishment for false statements
(1) If a company makes a false statement in any return, report, certificate, or other document, it shall be punishable.

This structured format provides a concise overview of key sections from the Companies Act, 2013 that are frequently referenced by legal professionals in India.