Hindu Marriage Act, 1955
========================

CHAPTER I — PRELIMINARY

Section 1. Short title and extent
(1) This Act may be called the Hindu Marriage Act, 1955.
(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.

Section 2. Application of Act
This Act applies to Hindus by religion in any form, including a Hindu undivided family, and also to any person who is a Buddhist, Jain, or Sikh.

CHAPTER II — MARRIAGE

Section 5. Conditions for a Hindu marriage
A marriage may be solemnized between any two Hindus, if the following conditions are fulfilled, namely:—
(a) neither party has a spouse living at the time of the marriage;
(b) at the time of the marriage, neither party is an idiot or a lunatic;
(c) the parties are not within the degrees of prohibited relationship;
(d) the bridegroom has completed the age of twenty-one years and the bride the age of eighteen years at the time of marriage.

Section 6. Marriage not solemnized
A marriage solemnized in contravention of the provisions of section 5 shall be voidable at the option of the party to the marriage who was at the time of the marriage ignorant of the facts that constituted the contravention.

Section 7. Ceremony of marriage
(1) A Hindu marriage shall be solemnized in accordance with the customary rites and ceremonies of either party thereto.
(2) Where such rites and ceremonies include the Saptapadi (the taking of seven steps by the bridegroom and the bride together), the marriage shall be deemed to be solemnized when the seventh step is taken.

Section 8. Registration of Hindu marriages
(1) Every marriage between Hindus shall be registered under this Act.
(2) The State Government may make rules for the registration of Hindu marriages.

CHAPTER III — VOID AND VOIDABLE MARRIAGES

Section 11. Void marriages
Any marriage solemnized after the commencement of this Act shall be void if it contravenes any of the conditions specified in section 5.

Section 12. Voidable marriages
(1) Any marriage shall be voidable and may be annulled by a decree of divorce if—
(a) it was solemnized without the consent of either party;
(b) it was obtained by fraud or coercion;
(c) it was solemnized when either party was of unsound mind.

CHAPTER IV — DIVORCE

Section 13. Grounds for divorce
(1) Any marriage solemnized, whether before or after the commencement of this Act, may be dissolved by a decree of divorce on the following grounds:
(a) that the other party is guilty of adultery;
(b) that the other party has deserted the petitioner for a continuous period of not less than two years;
(c) that the other party has been incurably of unsound mind for a period of not less than three years;
(d) that the other party has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.

Section 13B. Divorce by mutual consent
(1) A petition for divorce may be presented to the court by both the parties to the marriage together, after they have been living separately for a period of one year or more, and they have mutually agreed that the marriage should be dissolved.

CHAPTER V — RESTITUTION OF CONJUGAL RIGHTS

Section 9. Restitution of conjugal rights
When either the husband or the wife has, without reasonable excuse, withdrawn from the society of the other, the aggrieved party may apply to the court for restitution of conjugal rights.

CHAPTER VI — JUDICIAL SEPARATION

Section 10. Judicial separation
(1) Either party to a marriage may present a petition for judicial separation on any of the grounds specified in section 13.

CHAPTER VII — MISCELLANEOUS

Section 14. No petition for divorce to be presented within certain period
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, no petition for divorce shall be presented within a period of six months from the date of marriage.

Section 15. Divorce obtained outside India
A divorce obtained by a Hindu outside India shall not be recognized in India unless it is in accordance with the provisions of this Act.

Section 16. Legitimacy of children of void and voidable marriages
(1) Children of a marriage which is voidable shall be deemed to be legitimate if the marriage is annulled on the ground of the incapacity of either party to consent.

Section 17. Punishment for bigamy
Whoever, being married, shall marry again shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term which may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable to fine.

Section 18. Punishment for contravention of certain other conditions
Whoever, being a Hindu, marries in contravention of the provisions of section 5 shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to one month or with fine which may extend to one thousand rupees or with both.

Section 19. Application of Act to certain persons
This Act shall apply to all Hindus, including those who are married under the Special Marriage Act, 1954.

Section 20. Power to make rules
The Central Government may make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.