Hindu Succession Act, 1956
==========================

CHAPTER I — PRELIMINARY

Section 1. Short title and extent
(1) This Act may be called the Hindu Succession Act, 1956.
(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir.

Section 2. Application of Act
This Act applies to Hindus, Buddhists, Jains, and Sikhs. It does not apply to Muslims, Christians, or Parsis.

CHAPTER II — GENERAL

Section 3. Definitions
In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires:
(a) "heir" means a person who is entitled to succeed to the property of an intestate under this Act;
(b) "intestate" means a person who dies without making a will;
(c) "property" includes both movable and immovable property.

CHAPTER III — SUCCESSION TO PROPERTY OF HINDUS

Section 6. Devolution of interest in coparcenary property
(1) On and from the commencement of the Hindu Succession (Amendment) Act, 2005, in a joint family governed by the Mitakshara school of Hindu law, the daughter of a coparcener shall,—
(a) by birth, become a coparcener in her own right in the same manner as the son;
(b) have the same rights in the coparcenary property as she would have had if she had been a son;
(c) be subject to the same liabilities in respect of the said property as the son.

Section 8. General rules of succession in the case of males
The property of a male Hindu dying intestate shall devolve according to the rules set out in this section.

Section 9. General rules of succession in the case of females
The property of a female Hindu dying intestate shall devolve according to the rules set out in this section.

Section 10. Order of succession among heirs in the same class
Among the heirs in the same class, the order of succession shall be according to their respective degrees of relationship to the deceased.

Section 11. Order of succession among heirs in different classes
The order of succession among the heirs in different classes shall be as provided in this section.

Section 12. Heirs to succeed simultaneously
If two or more heirs succeed to the property of an intestate, they shall take the property simultaneously.

CHAPTER IV — SPECIAL PROVISIONS RELATING TO WOMEN

Section 14. Property of a female Hindu
(1) Any property possessed by a female Hindu, whether acquired before or after the commencement of this Act, shall be held by her as full owner thereof and not as a limited owner.
(2) This section shall not apply to any property held by a female Hindu as a trustee.

Section 15. General rules of succession in the case of female Hindus
The property of a female Hindu dying intestate shall devolve according to the rules set out in this section.

Section 16. Children of void and voidable marriages
(1) The children of a void marriage shall be deemed to be legitimate.
(2) The children of a voidable marriage shall be deemed to be legitimate if the marriage is not annulled.

CHAPTER V — MISCELLANEOUS

Section 30. Testamentary succession
A Hindu may dispose of his property by will or other testamentary disposition.

Section 31. Repeal of certain laws
The Hindu Succession Act, 1956, shall repeal the Hindu Succession Act, 1925, and any other law corresponding to this Act.

Section 32. Power to make rules
The Central Government may make rules for carrying out the provisions of this Act.

Section 33. Saving of certain rights
Nothing in this Act shall affect any right to property which has accrued to any person under any law in force before the commencement of this Act.

Section 34. Act not to apply to certain cases
This Act shall not apply to any property of a Hindu governed by any custom or usage which is contrary to the provisions of this Act.

Section 35. Provisions of this Act to prevail over other laws
The provisions of this Act shall have effect notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in any other law for the time being in force.

Section 36. Power of Court to decide questions of succession
The Court shall have the power to decide any question of succession arising under this Act.